
# Compress files found

---

### Metadata

This is a man page for a TTP available in Operator. Man pages provide additional context around procedures and should be consulted if you are looking to learn about a particular chain.

- *TTP Identifier*: 5b3e388a-d65d-453f-b8e3-900ff7c6feda
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1560.002](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/002/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

An attacker will often look for files that will progress their overall goal. Some attackers might look for credentials, ssh keys, or intellectual property. Attackers will often compress the selected files before exfiltrating. This can greatly
reduce the amount of network traffic needed to transfer the files (especially when dealing with text based files). Data loss prevention (DLP) mechanisms or other SIEM reporting can often be triggered when large amounts of data are egressing a network, compression is an easy way for an attacker to circumvent policies based on file size.

### Expected output

---

A compressed file containing the selected files will be created.

### Basic variations

---

Ransomware can also function by compressing files before exfiltrating or even compressing the files and password protecting the archive.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Find out what compression methods are available on your systems and ensure proper logging when access to these methods are executed. Be cognizant of applications which may include compression libraries or binaries when dealing with their own file types.

### How it is chained

---

An attacker will often execute this technique after the discovery tactic when gaining access to a machine. Typically the next tactic used after this technique is exfiltration. 
