
# Spawn elevated CastOut MBR wiper via UAC prompt

---

### Metadata

This is a man page for a TTP available in Operator. Man pages provide additional context around procedures and should be consulted if you are looking to learn about a particular chain.

- *TTP Identifier*: c14f956a-7757-4117-80b7-3be38481199b
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1561.002](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1561/002)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Wipers are malware that are primarily used to destroy or damage disk data structures and files.  When disk data structures, such as the Master Boot Record (MBR) or partition table, are corrupted or destroyed the system is put into an unbootable state.  Depending on the wiper data recovery may not be possible.

Wipers are not commonly used by criminal groups because disk and data destruction leave fewer options for monetization. In the case of ransomware, most have a wiper component for destroying data after it has been encrypted, but data destruction is not the primary goal. Thus, the use of wipers is typically observed in state offensive cyber operations where the intent is to degrade or deny target computer networks.  Notable examples include [HermeticWiper](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0697) used in the 2022 Russia-Ukraine war, and Sandworm's [BlackEnergy](https://attack.mitre.org/software/S0089).

### Expected output

---

No expected output. When successful the system will be put in an unbootable state.

### Basic variations

---

Disk structure wipers may target the MBR, GPT, or partition tables. Multiple disks may be targeted, including external devices and removable media.

Disk content wipers target files, such as a user's personal files or critical system files. Wipers may use native API calls to perform the read/write actions on the files, or native system utilities like `dd` or `rm`.

### Prevent + Detect

---

MBR wipers typically work by first requesting a file handle to the physical disk, an action which requires elevated permission, and then writing data to the MBR or partition table of that disk.  This action is both fast and simple, requiring only a few native system API calls. Prevention and detection of this kind of wiper may be accomplished through native API call monitoring and drive access/modification.

Wipers that rely on native system utilities such as `dd` or `rm` may be detected by process execution monitoring and command line logging.

### How it is chained

---

Wipers that require elevated permission may be chained with privilege escalation techniques. Some wipers are wormable and may be chained with remote exploitation or lateral movement techniques.
