
# Insert Schism Loader

---

### Metadata

This is a man page for a TTP available in Operator. Man pages provide additional context around procedures and should be consulted if you are looking to learn about a particular chain.

- *TTP Identifier*: 2d678370-e673-4a4f-940b-4c0ff78ddddc
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1195.001](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1195/001)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

A supply chain attack is by far the most useful types of attacks for a hacker. These type of attacks often circumvent security products since they hijack the target's trust relationship with the consumer. SolarWinds was a great example of a supply chain attack occurring in a patch released by the company. This means that organizations that attempted to stay up to date with the latest software patches were actually the first entities to be compromised.

### Expected output

---

Like most initial access techniques, there should be no noticable indication of compromise. 

### Basic variations

---

This type of attack is often hard to replicate, since it relies on targeting and exploitation before it gets distributed to the consumers. This TTP attempts to get as close as possible to the supplier, by inserting a schism backdoor in a "trusted library". This means that any user/process on the system that interacts with the targeted library, will open a backdoor to the attacker.

### Prevent + Detect

---

This is by far one of the hardest type of attacks to prevent, often times the consumer doesn't have access to the source code of the application; making reverse engineering software before installing it, the only preventative measure available. Detecting this type of attack is possible if you have a "known good" version of the software. Ensure you collect data during a software baseline to identify "regular activity", any changes in this regular activity should be logged and inspected.  

### How it is chained

---

Expect this to be executed before it ever reaches your system. It will likely happen during manufacuring of the product. The next TTP that would likely follow this, would be triggering of the malicious code.
