
# Phishing Emails

---

### Metadata

This is a man page for a TTP available in Operator. Man pages provide additional context around procedures and should be consulted if you are looking to learn about a particular chain.

- *TTP Identifier*: 71f0de84-80e5-49ff-8b20-a36e735cd69f
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1566](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1566/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Phishing is typically the most common and simple way to gain initial access. It often bypasses most protections on a machine or network, since it requires the user to click a link or execute a peice of malware. Phishing is also part of social engineering, as the email typically needs to trigger an emotional response from the user. Fear is a strong emotion and is typically used in phishing attacks, telling a user that "Your computer is infected" or "We have a video of you doing something illegal" can often cause a user to click a link. The other benefit of phishing is that it is targetless (unlike spearphishing). The attacker can simply send out thousands of emails and just wait for one of the thousands of people to click the link.

### Expected output

---

This TTP does not create any useful output, it will simply send an email to each (comma separated) address provided to the "phishing.receivers" fact.  

### Basic variations

---

As mentioned above, the common variation to phishing is called "spearphishing" in which the attacker sends the phishing emails to a specific user or groups of users.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Prevention of phishing attacks always starts with educating the user on the dangers of clicking links. Always ensure any email links are from trusted sources before you visit them. Copy all links and paste them into the browser, as an html link's text does not have to match the destination (as seen in this TTP).

Detection is often hard, as phishing exploits the "user vector". Ensuring emails are filtered from unknown sources can sometimes help.But it is possible that the attacker could have gained access to a trusted source and sent the email from their address. Scanning links and blocking known malicious domains can also help. 


### How it is chained

---

Immediately after running this TTP in the goldilocks chain, a server will start listening for a request from someone who clicked the link, the malware that gets downloaded contains all the information needed to gain access to the user's system.
