
# Self-extracting RAR malware

---

### Metadata

This is a man page for a TTP available in Operator. Man pages provide additional context around procedures and should be consulted if you are looking to learn about a particular chain.

- *TTP Identifier*: bf3bcab0-0e51-4647-ae1c-5eb57e916c20
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1204.002](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1204/002)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

File compression encodes data such that it uses fewer bits than the original file(s), commonly referred to as a file archive. Most systems have built-in or third-party archiving software available such as WinRAR or 7zip. These programs can be used to create a self-extracting archive - an archive that in addition to compressed files is itself a program able to decompress the files it contains.  Malware authors have used this technique to evade detection and stage their malware on a target system.

### Expected output

---

This technique will stage a self-extracting RAR that contains a disarmed malware sample.


### Basic variations

---

This command uses a self-extracting RAR payload hosted in Operator.  A simple tweak would be to compile your own self-extracting RAR using WinRAR and modifying the compile flags, such as adding a password or changing the compression algorithm. 

### Prevent + Detect

---

Generic YARA rules for SFX files (self-extracting RARs) can be used to detect the presence of these files on a host.  Email filter and web proxy filters may be used to detect and block these files.

### How it is chained

---

Adversaries use SFX files to stage malware on a host. This typically follows a phishing email or malicious link to prompt the user to download and execute the archive. Once the malware is extracted it must be executed, so techniques that trick the user into executing the file are likely. Following infection, subsequent techniques are dependent on the malware's capabilities.

