
# Create malicious .LNK file

---

### Metadata

This is a man page for a TTP available in Operator. Man pages provide additional context around procedures and should be consulted if you are looking to learn about a particular chain.

- *TTP Identifier*: 1afd8c08-d31f-4589-8ec9-868ffabb6610
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1547.009](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/1547/009)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

A LNK file is a shortcut used in Windows to reference a file, folder, or application. LNK files can be configured with a "trigger" that causes the file to execute every time the trigger is activated, such as when a particular combination of keys are pressed.  An attacker can craft a LNK file such that is executes malware, or a command, whenever this trigger is activated.

### Expected output

---

This technique uses powershell to create a LNK file that executes a disarmed malware sample.


### Basic variations

---

A simple variation on this technique is to adjust the execution trigger, such as by selecting a commonly used key or sequence of keys.

### Prevent + Detect

---

YARA rules can be used to detect known malware samples and generic LNK rules can be used to detect LNK files on a system. Additionally, parse LNK files to extract the execution targets and their triggers.

### How it is chained

---

LNK files are commonly used in initial access such as phishing. Once the file is staged on the target host, the attacker must wait for the trigger in order to gain execution of the LNK file target.  LNK files may als be used as a persistence mechanism to ensure that files written to the system are periodically executed.

