
# Shellcode Injection

---

### Metadata

This is a man page for a TTP available in Operator. Man pages provide additional context around procedures and should be consulted if you are looking to learn about a particular chain.

- *TTP Identifier*: c1f2e4ab-3f74-4d6a-a6a0-4946d0ca4a79
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1055](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

Process injection is method of code execution that typically abuses legitimate OS functionality, such as the loading of a shared library.  On a Windows system, these shared libraries are called DLLs and they contain, in addition to useful exported functions, some boilerplate structure that helps Windows load and use the DLL.  

Shellcode is typically a small piece of position independent assembly code. Since it doesn’t contain all the boilerplate found in a shared library, it’s a much smaller payload.  Shellcode injection, itself a process injection technique, simply loads shellcode into a target process’s memory and executes it.

As an attacker, the use of shellcode injection for execution is desirable because it's generally harder to detect than alternative execution methods, requiring EDR or similar technology that monitors either the native api, process memory, or both.

### Expected output

---

No usable console output is expected from this command.

### Basic variations

---

Shellcode injection techniques vary in how code is injected into a process. In the case of the Sliver agent, available through the Operator Sliver plugin, `execute-shellcode` is a wrapper around the Windows API functions `VirtualAllocEx` (used to allocate process memory), `WriteProcessMemory` (used to write the shellcode in to the target process memory space), and `CreateRemoteThread` (used to create the remote thread where the shellcode is located).  Variations on this basic pattern may use different native functions, or direct syscalls, to perform the same effect.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Tools that monitor native API calls and process memory, such as EDR and AV, may be used to detect shellcode injection and may even block execution.  On Windows, Sysmon event logs may be used to monitor processes that create remote threads (event ID: 8).

### How it is chained

---

Shellcode injection is a fundamental execution technique and may be used at any stage of an engagement. The shellcode itself can be practically anything, such as a loader for second stage malware, a bof, or a simple shell command.
