
# Host Dynamically Named Payload

---

### Metadata

This is a man page for a TTP available in Operator. Man pages provide additional context around procedures and should be consulted if you are looking to learn about a particular chain.

- *TTP Identifier*: 7ae93aeb-8bfd-4633-a3a9-1ec6bc393f9f
- *MITRE Technique ID*: [T1587](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1587/)

---

### A hacker's perspective

---

An attacker needs a way to tell the malware where to communicate. There are many ways to solve this issue, but this way seems to work with the design of Operator and requires minimal user interaction. The listener will wait for a request, once the request is received, the response sets the payload to have a name that contains the information the malware needs to communicate back.

### Expected output

---

This TTP does not create any useful output, it will simply rename a payload, so the filename contains the information of Operator's IP and Ports to push information back to.

### Basic variations

---

The payload hosted in this variation is based off tactics used by Cozy Bear. The payload "just_right" will visit a github repo and download an image. The image contains an embedded command, which will tell "just_right" to send the user's home directory back to Operator.

### Prevent + Detect

---

Always check the names of files that are getting downloaded. Ensure that any files you download are from reliable sources and attempt to scan them with your EDR before execution.  


### How it is chained

---

This is the final part of the goldilocks chain, after receiving data from the malware, the listener will shut down.
